[<- Back](README.md)
# Project Structure
The basic purpose of PRTS is to manage roles (accounts), permissions, tokens, and a later added product key management.
- `_AccountManager.py`: 
  - registration, login, password change
  - checking whether the username has been registered, whether the email has been bound
  - obtaining/setting user information, obtaining/setting user nicknames
  - creating and sending a verification code for the specified user
- `_TempStringManager.py`: This is a collection of features that includes all content with ttl:
  - cleaning expired content
  - Verification Code:
    - obtaining verification codes (this function is not recommended for users, please directly call sendVerifyCode in AccountManager)
    - checking verification codes
  - Token: 
    - obtaining tokens 
    - checking and resetting tokens
    - checking and refreshing tokens
  - Product Key:
    - generating product keys
    - checking product keys
  - Permission:
    - Permission Group:
      - adding or deleting permission groups
      - adding or deleting permissions for permission groups
    - User Permission
      - adding or deleting permissions for users
      - checking user permissions
- `_Schedule.py`: Provides a schedule implemented with multithreading to perform tasks that repeat at specific time intervals, such as regularly cleaning up expired content. Built in tasks available in`_BuiltInSchedule.py`:
  - `PRTSClearExpiredSchedule`: Clean up expired content every 10 minutes.
  - `PRTSServerGuardian`: Send a request to a specific URL every minute (this is just an example, you can modify it to do other things).
- `_Config.py`: Read the yaml configuration for PRTS to use, including the original text of the default configuration string.
- `_EmailHost.py`: Provides a basic email sending facility, which is a derived class of `PRTSVerifyCodeSender`, originally intended as the default implementation of the sender, but you can also directly use its provided `sendEmail` function to send your own email.
- `_Utils.py`: The status code and a function for generating random strings are defined here, including a function for obtaining the total volume of a folder. This function has not been used, but perhaps you will need it, so it is retained.
- `GUI._PRTSGUI.py`: A basic GUI for PRTS implemented using Qt, the Qt code used is mostly universal between Qt6 and Qt5, as long as you have PySide2 or PySide6 in your Python environment, you can use it. Generally speaking, it is only recommended to use GUI in debug environments and not in production environments as it may be unreliable.
- `Any other file`: Most of them do not contain important logical code, so there is no need to worry about it.

# Basic principles of function content
**All functions of PRTS only perform one step operation, which is the operation expressed by their function names.** 

For example, if you need to check the verification code during user registration, you need to call `PRTSTempStringManager.Instance.checkVerifyCode()` yourself and decide whether to call `PRTSAccountManager.Instance.register()` based on its return value. 

After the user's account and password have passed `PRTSAccountManager.Instance.login()`, you also need to manually call `PRTSTempStringManager.Instance.getToken()` to obtain a valid token for them to return. 

If you need to provide a password change function for users, you should also verify the user's verification code yourself before calling `PRTSAccountManager.Instance.changePassword()`.

The function that may not strictly adhere to this principle here is `PRTSAccountManager.register()`, which has built-in checks for duplicate usernames. Therefore, for the isolated `PRTSAccountManager.checkAccountRegistered` function, its greatest significance should be for the front-end to immediately check when the user types the username, rather than waiting for the user to click the "register" button to check. This function will also check whether the email can still be bound, according to the configuration.

# Basic Usage - Taking Flask environment as an example
All the code below assumes that you have initialized PRTS and your Flask application instance is called `ServerHost`. The import code was omitted for brevity.
## register
```python
@ServerHost.route("/api/register", methods=["POST"])
def register():
    """
    # JSON request
    {
        "username": "str",
        "password": "str",
        "verify": "str",
        "email": "str",
        "nickname": "str"
    }
    # JSON response
    {
        "state": "int"
        "token": "str"
    }
    """
    requestJson = request.get_json()
    username:str = requestJson["username"]
    password:str = requestJson["password"]
    verifyCode:str = requestJson["verify"]
    email:str = requestJson["email"]
    nickname:str = requestJson["nickname"]
    code = PRTS.Instance.TempStringManager.checkVerifyCode(username, verifyCode)
    if code != StateCode.Success:
        return jsonify({"state": code.value})
    code = PRTS.Instance.AccountManager.register(username, password, email, nickname)
    if code != StateCode.Success:
        return jsonify({"state": code.value})
    token = PRTS.Instance.TempStringManager.getToken(username)
    return jsonify({"state": code.value, "token": token})
```
## login
```python
@ServerHost.route("/api/login", methods=["POST"])
def login():
    """
    # JSON request
    {
        "username": "str",
        "password": "str"
    }
    # JSON response
    {
        "state": "int",
        "token": "str",
        "nickname": "str"
    }
    """
    requestJson = request.get_json()
    username:str = requestJson["username"]
    password:str = requestJson["password"]
    code = PRTS.Instance.AccountManager.login(username, password)
    if code != StateCode.Success:
        return jsonify({"state": code.value})
    token = PRTS.Instance.TempStringManager.getToken(username)
    nickname = PRTS.Instance.AccountManager.getNickname(username)
    return jsonify({"state": code.value, "token": token, "nickname": data["nickname"]})
```


